Git Assignment - Nagabharath

1.How do you initialize a new Git repository named "project1" on your local machine?
	create a folder at required location
	open git bash here or open command prompt and go to this directory
	git init - command to initialise the git
	
2.How do you add a new file named "index.html" to the "project1" repository?
	change the directory to the repo folder and then create a file
	touch index.html
	
3.How do you stage the changes made to "index.html" for committing?
	git add index.html (or) git add .
	
4.How do you commit the changes made to "index.html" with a commit message of "Add index.html"?
	git commit -m "add index.html file
	
5.How do you view the commit history of the "project1" repository?
	Using "git log" command
	
6.How do you create a new branch named "feature-branch" in the "project1" repository?
	git branch feature-branch
	
7.How do you switch to the "feature-branch" in the "project1" repository?
	git checkout feature-branch 
	
8.How do you make changes to "index.html" in the "feature-branch"?
	vi index.html 
	insert changes in this file and then save and exit using Esc :wq
	
9.How do you stage and commit the changes made in the "feature-branch" with a commit message of "Update index.html in feature branch"?
	git add .
	git commit -m "update the index.html file in feature-branch 

10.How do you switch back to the main branch in the "project1" repository?
	git checkout main 

11.How do you merge the changes from the "feature-branch" into the main branch?
	git merge feature-branch 

12.How do you resolve any merge conflicts that occur during the merge process?
	a. git log --merge -> The git log --merge command helps to produce the list of commits that are causing the conflict.
	c. git checkout -> The git checkout command is used to undo the changes made to the file, or for changing branches.
	d. git reset --mixed -> The git reset --mixed command is used to undo changes to the working directory and staging area.
	e. git merge --abort -> The git merge --abort command helps in exiting the merge process and returning back to the state before the merging began.

13.How do you view the changes introduced by the merge commit?
	git diff -> The git diff command helps to identify the differences between the states repositories or files.

14.How do you create a new tag named "v1.0" for the current commit in the "project1" repository?
	git tag v1.0

15.How do you push the "project1" repository to a remote repository named "origin"?
	git push -u project_1

16.How do you clone the "project1" repository from a remote repository to another machine?
	git clone <enter the url of the repository>

17.How do you fetch the latest changes from the remote repository to your local "project1" repository?
	git fetch 

18.How do you pull the latest changes from the remote repository into your current branch in the "project1" repository?
	git pull origin project_1

19.How do you create a new branch named "bug-fix" in the "project1" repository based on a specific commit?
	git flow bug-fix start <bug name>

20.How do you revert the last commit made in the "project1" repository?
	git reset -> The git reset command is used at the time of merge conflict to reset the conflicted files to their original state.